-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mario in the Dreamscape
v1.1
by: Angry
145 stars///90 required

My Discord: @a.ngry

+=====> !! For those who completed the original 104 star demo, I highly reccomend restarting the hack from the start rather than continuing where you left off.
Even though I reccomend it, I have made it optional, so all your previous stars will remain collected if you choose that route. !! <=====+

Table of contents to this README:
Music Guide
Other Hack Info
Story
Thanks
Changelog

-------------------MUSIC GUIDE-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(LEVEL) Level name
ID Area name: Game - Song name  (instrument bank)

If no instrument bank is specified, it's (37 - Credits)


Main Courses

(C1) Canyon Skyscape
35 Day: Bomberman Hero - Redial
36 Night: Pokemon Mystery Dungeon - Hidden Highland
39 Tower of Time: Paper Mario - Cloudy Climb

(C2) Beach Oasis
38 Main Area: Chrono Trigger - Corridors of Time (Extended Bank 12)
37 Cave: Chrono Trigger - Corridors of Time (26 - Fanfare)

(C3) Construction Cavern
42 Main Area: Sonic CD - Metallic Madness Present (US)
50 Blue Caves: Medievil - Crystal Caves

(C4) Tundra Meadows
40 Main Area: Donkey Kong Country 2: Diddy's Kong Quest - In a Snow Bound Land
41 Cave: Donkey Kong Country 2: Diddy's Kong Quest - In a Snow Bound Land (27 - Boss Fight)
66 Inside the Borealis Core: Undertale - Here We Are

(C5) Forest Fortress
46 Main Area: Pokemon Mystery Dungeon - Treeshroud Forest
45 Inverted Forest: Pokemon Mystery Dungeon - Miracle Sea (slowed, as to have roughly the same bpm as Treeshroud Forest)
44 Fortress: Pokemon Mystery Dungeon - Dusk Forest

(C6) Blue Bubble Bottom
49 Main Area, Town: Sonic Jam - Museum
51 Cavern of the Lake: The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess - Boss Defeated

(C7) Floral Flame Falls
52 Main Area: Sonic 3D Blast - Volcano Valley Act 2
54 Volcano: Sonic 3D Blast - Volcano Valley Act 2 (28 - Looping Stairs)

(C8) Earthlike Crater
55 Main Area, Asteroid Scene: Apollo Justice - A New Trial is in Session

(C9) Angels' Domain
59 Main Area: Kirby Nightmare in Dreamland - Butter Building (slowed)

(C10) Garden of Gloom
61 Main Area: Pokemon Red/Blue/Yellow - Lavender Town (TheNail Edit: https://youtu.be/w46QefTH5aU --- You're supposed to use soundbank 19 for this
one but I had to use 35 - Ending)
65 Mansion: Banjo-Tooie - Jiggywiggy's Temple

(C11) Forgotten Isle
62 Main Area: Touhou 2 SoEW - Forest of Tohno
63 Odysskies: New Super Mario Bros. - Athletic

(C12) Midnight at Mapleland
69 Main Area: ESPGaluda - Stage 2 Ravine (slowed)

(C13) Tumbletoad Towers Ruins
73 Main Area: Metroid - Kraid's Theme
74 Slide: Megaman Battle Network 3 - Flash Man Stage (Extended Bank 12)

(C14) Up-Down Town
75 Red: Celeste - Ressurections
76 Blue: Celeste - Quiet and Falling

(C15) Mario's Kismet
77 Main Area: Touhou 8 - Deaf to All But the Sound
39 Optic Tower: Paper Mario - Cloudy Climb

Overworlds

47 (OW1) Mushroom Kingdom: Animal Crossing - Meteor Shower
58 (OW2) The Dreamscape: Pokemon Mystery Dungeon - Sky Peak Snowfield
68 (OW3) Xertic Castle: The Legend of Zelda: A Link Between Worlds - Lost Woods

Caps
15 Metal Cap: Mario Kart 8 - Shy Guy Falls
14 Wing Cap, Koopa Shell: Lion Musashi - The Safari
70 Vanish Cap: Touhou 13 TD - Desire Drive
48 (MC) Icy Undergrounds: The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess - Sacred Grove
53 (VC) Neon Narcolepsy: Mega Man 5 - Dark Man Stages
56 (WC) Cotton Castle Clouds: Pokemon Mystery Dungeon - Northern Desert

Bowser Stages
57 (B1) Bowser in a Starfield: Kirby 64 - Aqua Star
64 (B2) Bowser's Lonely Lagoon: Paper Mario The Thousand Year Door - Twilight Town
43 (B3) Bowser's Optic Sea: Sonic Advance 3 - Ocean Base Act 1
71 (B3) Disastrous Dollhouse: Donkey Kong 64 - Frantic Factory
07 Bowser Battle (Starfight, Shipfight): Kirby - Marx Theme (26 - Fanfare)
25 Final Bowser Battle (Seefight): Mario & Luigi: Bowser's Inside Story - In the Final

Side Stages
60 (ZM) Valley o' Ztar: Kirby Block Ball - Stage 1 (34 - Bob-omb Battlefield)
00 (Ao) Amalgamation of: (No Music)

Misc. 
33 File Select: Final Fantasy V - Beyond the Deep Blue Sea
13 Star Select: Super Princess Peach - File Select
67 Nightmare/Ice Ending: 999 - Morphogenetic Sorrow
72 Positive/Completionist Ending: HOME - Resonance
22 Boss Battle: Undertale - Bonetrousle (26 - Fanfare)
01 Star Get: Super Mario 64 - Lakitu Appears (27 - Boss Fight)
23 Key Get: Touhou 6 EoSD - U.N. Owen was her?
18 High Score: Mario Party - You Got a Star!
28 Toad: Super Mario 64 - Toad (32 - Toad)
09 Koopa the Quick Race: Mario Kart 64 - Raceway
11 Piranha Plant Lullaby - Silent. As sleep should be. (No Music)


-------------------OTHER HACK INFO------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-Valley o' Ztar is quite obviously a remake of Ztar Meadows, the first course in SM64 1.5 - Ztar Attack! by TheGael95. It is one of my favorite levels of all
time so I decided to remake it. And, as Koopa the Quick reveals, I like the original Course 1 from Ztar Attack! over Course 1 from Ztar Attack Rebooted.
Course 1 is the only exception, however, as I enjoy every other level more in Rebooted than in the original. 

-'Amalgamation of' is a level meant to be a physical remake of The Caretaker's album Everywhere at the End of Time 
which represents the stages of mental decline through Alzheimer's and dementia in music form. 
Honestly, I don't think I did a good job. The level is fine but it didn't have the effect I was aiming for. The level was originally
named Everywhere at the End of Time, but I changed it. The name is incomplete on purpose. There is no amalgamation of anything real. It is all figments of broken hope.


There are some beta stages hidden in the hack that you need to use Star Display to access. These all use warp ID 10:

-Course 2 Area 4 has my second version of Beach Oasis, back when it was called Oasis Desert. 
-Course 2 Area 3 has the oldest version of Oasis Desert and my first ever model for any hack. Oasis Desert's old music was Plack Beach 
from Bowser's Inside Story. There is another model of a beach level that was unnamed, and dates back to around September or October 2019. That model is lost to time, 
and I made it before I even thought about ROM hacking for SM64. It was loosely inspired by Treasure Trove Cove from Banjo-Kazooie, I remember that much.

-Course 3 Area 4 has an unfinished version of Rock Pile Cave, the old name for Construction Cavern. Its old music was Undertale - Ruins. 

-Course 4 Area 3 has my 'Ice Plateau' stage, which is my second model for this hack and the oldest version of Tundra Meadows I had made before restarting.

-Course 12 was a huge pain in the ass to make. I had to entirely remake it three(?) times probably. The first version of it can be seen
if you warp to Course 12 Area 1 ONLY IN v0.5. That model has since been wiped from my computer because I hate it. The final version you see in
the current Midnight at Mapleland is just BARELY 'alive'. At one point it would not even export anymore and I had to figure out how to
revive it, which is why a lot of the texturing may look a little rough. I was not about to edit every. single. component. that had
its texturing messed up. That level is cursed in a way. I don't knpow what the issue was but maybe it was a certain texture I used, because
the textures are the only thing in common with all 3 versions of the level that I had attempted to make previously. Whatever. It's working and
I will leave it injured as it currently stands.


-This hack used to be called Mario's Demise 64, and was planned to have 100 stars. I started it in June 2020. Before that, when all planning was on paper, the hack was
called 'Project Newstalgia' but that was purely a working title.
The concept of Mario's Demise 64 would be that Mario would die after trying to beat Bowser in the first Bowser course, in which the model would switch over to Luigi and
he would have to save Mario. It's not a bad concept, but the one thing that kept me from doing this is my lack of knowledge of programming and decomp. I did not know how
I would be able to have the model for Mario switch to Luigi, and then being able to switch between the two after beating the game.
I then decided to change a lot of things and remake all of the old levels I had made. Course 1 and Course 5 are pretty much identical to the Mario's
Demise version but without the visual improvements, so I didn't think it was worth making extra beta areas for them.
I decided to switch to Mario in the Dreamscape in early December 2020, which was much more story-based and did not require programming.



-------------------STORY------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Yes, there is a story to this hack, if it isn't evident enough from visuals alone, even if you had never read NPC dialogue.
The following story DOES contain spoilers for how the end of the game will go, so perhaps you should play the game first and then read it.
But after all, this is a Mario hack, so who really cares that much?

This was written by me.


[Part I]-----------------------------------

Bowser has made his way to some outskirted lands of the [Mushroom Kingdom] and is causing mayhem in each individual land by 
sending wisps of evil black smoke into the pipes that lead to each individual land. Peach, however, remains safe in her castle.
Bowser rushed to the back of the overworld and set up locked doors behind him as he went. The doors require star power to open, so
Mario begins his usual journey of collecting stars to reach Bowser.

[Canyon Skyscape] A land of the mysterious Tower of Time, skyhigh mushrooms and other fungi, the Canyon Skyscape is home to
many peaceful pink bob-ombs, but with Bowser's arrival came evil black bob-ombs which will attack Mario and other passersby.
Pink Bob-Omb IDCS03 (Isabel)'s brother, Pink Bob-Omb IDSC04 (Lucas), entered the Tower of Time without returning, which worries Pink Bob-Omb
IDCS03 (Isabel). Pink Bob-Omb IDSC04 (Lucas) is simply enjoying the serenity of eternal night, so Mario informs Isabel who then rests easy.

[Beach Oasis] This beach-desert mix maintains its peaceful, warm flows of air, but the Archevangelical Pokey monsters and 
Chukyas that Bowser sent are interrupting the serene sounds of the ocean. An evil feeling also corrupts the currents of the
ocean, so all the already frantic Koopas who attempt to swim in the water instantly die. Pink Bob-Omb IDBO02's late Koopa 
friend, Jonas, felt the evil presence very prominently when swimming near the bottom. Jonas has since passed due to 
complications from swimming in the evil waters. The evil presence is a rock with eyes that Bowser has sent. The rock yearns 
for some bountiful rest, so let Mario deliver that to him. Mario notices a large eye in this battle room.

[Construction Cavern] This once all-natural cave has became the dumping grounds for Bowser's waste during his conquest of
the Mushroom Kingdom. He pours toxic waste into this cavern which he has began constructing into a waste facility. 
He has enslaved and brainwashed many Pink Bob-Ombs who are now covered in soot from restless mining. Pink Bob-Omb IDCC02's
family has been imprisoned and Pink-Bob Omb IDCC05 is forced to man the control unit for a door that leads to the currently untouched 
Blue Caves. IDCC02 and IDCC05 are the only non-imprisoned Pink Bob-Ombs that have successfully resisted Bowser's brainwashing.
Bowser has sent a minion, Mister ArchevangEye, to oversee operations in this waste facility construction project, as well as
various Scuttlebugs to keep the Pink Bob-Omb miners in line. Mister ArchevangEye has sent little Archevangeye Jr.s to keep every one
of the Bob-Ombs in line.
It is a matter of time before Bowser replaces the entire main cave system AND the sacred Blue Caverns with hot, toxic garbage, and eyes.

[Tundra Meadows] Bowser has placed a Cool Bully in the center of Mt. Breezie of the Tundra Meadows, who has been ruining the
moods of many snowmen. Most snowmen have turned against the Pink Bob-Ombs, but some remain peaceful (for now). Bowser defends
the Cool Bully on the path of the mountain using Drones-Archevangelica. Pink Bob-Omb IDTM02 uses his 2nd amendment right to bear arms 
to defend his house against the evil of Bowser.
A mysterious orb suddenly appeared in the Tundra Meadows one day, shortly before Bowser arrived. Mario cannot enter this cold orb of ice 
unless he has sufficient star power, so he ignores it for now, and goes to defeat the Cool Bully in the mountain. He finally notices a
recurring symbol that has appeared by all of the evil that Bowser has sent... it looks like a hyperbolic function maybe? Weird.
Mario talks to a Toad outside of the entrance to the Tundra Meadows. He shares a rumor that Bowser has much larger plans than anticipated.

[Icy Undergrounds] Bowser has yet to touch these deep, cold caverns under the Tundra Meadows, but spiders still haunt this place from times of yore.
However, just ignore the spiders and you can appreciate the serenity of this beautiful cavern.
A legendary switch resides here.

[Forest Fortress] Once a bustling society of Whomps, this forest has been abandoned of its king, the Whomp King. Bowser turned
all the Whomp Lackeys against the Whomp King who was forced to defect to another land. The Whomp King, an ally of Mario and
the Mushroom Kingdom, has his sights set on destroying Bowser and taking back his kingdom.
Bowser had stomped across the great bridge to the Fortress in order to destroy the Whomp King, but found the Fortress empty when
he had arrived. Bowser crushed and collapsed some of the bridge in the process, making the poison below a much greater danger now.
Pink Bob-Omb IDFF00 informs Mario of the aforementioned, and also mentions how he feels that he is being watched.
Negative Bob-Omb 00FFDI, deep into the strange phenomenon of the Inverted Forest (where all colors are inverted) also feels he is being watched.

[Blue Bubble Bottom] The city that never sleeped is now mostly asleep. After the invasion of the Skeeters that Bowser had sent,
the party-animals of Bubble Town locked up and hid in their apartments. Black Bob-Omb IDBBB01, who never really liked the
people of Bubble Town, laughs at the fear of the restless buffoons of the town. In the town below, Pink Bob-Omb IDBBT03 and Pink Bob-Omb 
IDBBT09  are brave enough to stay outside during the Skeeter attacks. IDBBT09 attempted to climb a tower which is filled with
killer Bubba fish sent by Bowser, but couldn't, so he waits for Mario to do it. That strange eye is above the town, watching. Maybe Pink Bob-Omb
IDFF00 was right in his suspicion of being watched...

[Neon Narcolepsy] A portal to a separate city from Bubble Town that was previously inaccessable by mortals suddenly appeared in the bottom of
the lake in the cavern of Blue Bubble Bottom. The portal appeared shortly after Bowser arrived, but it is strange how Bowser had such power to
open a portal like this... 
The inter-dimensional beings that used to party here have hidden in their neon apartments. This town may just be Bubble Town in an alternate 
universe. Bowser has once again disrupted the peace and pooping the party by sending various monsters.
A legendary switch resides here.

[Floral Flame Falls] These beautiful lava falls have always been to dangerous for any Bob-Ombs to inhabit, so these fiery lands
were very lonely until Bowser sent bullies and other monsters to distrupt them.

[Earthlike Crater] A few years ago (it feels like an eternity to the residents), a chunk of the Mushroom Kingdom mysteriously flew off of the 
earth into space. Those who were on that chunk have inhabited it and built a town. They still long to return to their home, so they have built
a rocket, but they do not have enough fuel to get all of the way back home. Bowser has not tampered with this land, for it already contains 
monsters that have flown into orbit from space (outer space is where Bowser gets his supply of monsters from). Black Bob-Omb IDEC04 believes that the 
chunk of land contains people who are "enlightened" and their knowledge is being suppressed. He implies that something had sent them out to space, 
and that same something has brainwashed everyone. He points out the Eyes that Mario has noticed, but no one else except these two have seemed to
see the Eyes.
He is likely tripping on 'shrooms but it IS strange how this chunk of land flew out into space exactly 3 years before Bowser arrived.

[Cotton Castle Clouds] Another serene land untouched by Bowser. This is a land of love. There are monsters, but they simply flew in from the parent
portal that resides in Earthlike Crater. Bowser did not send them. 
A legendary switch resides here.

[Starfield] Mario has enough strength to open the final door that Bowser has placed, and it leads to the Starfield. In the sky sits a dimensional
star-shaped portal. Bowser placed two locked doors with seemingly no destination, and Black Bob-Omb IDSF01 mentions how Bowser was mumbling
about a contingency plan of sorts... was this the larger plan that the Toad by Tundra Meadows was talking about? Mario talks to Cannon Bob-Omb IDSF00
and shoots himself into the big star in the sky to penetrate the inpenetrable. But by the cannon, there's that symbol, again. It's everywhere. What
could it mean? He had never before seen this symbol before embarking on this journey.
[Starfight] Bowser is surprised that Mario had found the super duper hidden pocket dimension that took up a mere half of the sky of the Starfield.
As Mario gets a good first glance at Bowser, he sees that his eye has been replaced with static. Mario gets shivers just looking at him in the 
eye, as if he has seen the face of God, so he goes for the tail. With a great swing, Bowser is launched into a bomb (placed by Espionage Bob-Omb 
IDSF01 sent by Princess Peach) by Mario. Bowser drops a key and makes a nimble retreat, but before he does, he warns Mario, with a pleading, nostalgic
look in his eyes, not to follow him into where he will retreat to: the Dreamscape.
He just knew this couldn't be the end of Bowser.

Mario enters the doors that Bowser placed using the key he obtained from him, and he finds that there IS a destination. He finds himself in a 
small forested area in which he cannot tread deeper into. In the ground is a hole that takes on the shape of a wormhole. Brave and ardent, Mario
enters the hole. He finds himself in a pink, hazy area similar in structure to the forested one above, but there is a portal in the wall. Mario enters the
portal, and into the Dreamscape he goes.



[Part II]----------------------------------

[The Dreamscape], according to Dream Bob-Omb IDDS01, is the land where dreams have their physical manifestations. It is just as real as the
Mushroom Kingdom, so Mario can and will be physically harmed. When Bowser entered the Dreamscape, he continued his plans by conquering the
lands of the Dreamscape, consequently disrupting the dreams of small children in the Mushroom Kingdom and causing great mental distress to
all creatures, real or dreamt. Bowser has locked himself high in a tower locked by a door that requires star power, so Mario collects more stars.
Bowser seems to be building a pirate ship in the Lonely Lagoon at the top of the tower, because Dream Bob-Omb IDDS02 saw him leading his servants
up the tower, all carrying planks of wood.

[Angels' Domain] The oldest land in the Dreamscape. It is the equivalent of Heaven. The Angels have built these high lands using blocks made of
love, passion, and good-heartedness. When Bowser stormed into the Dreamscape, he sent the Angels' counterparts, the Demons, to disrupt the peace.
Bowser also covered the domain in sludge that transports anyone who touches it instantly to Hell. According to Dream Bob-Omb IDAD02, the leader
of these demons, presumably the Devil himself, is hiding in a cave across of the domain, controlling his puppets from afar.
But most notable of all to Mario is that the recurring symbol is EVERYWHERE. Mario concludes that the symbol belongs to the Angels, and that Bowser is using
the power of the Angels against them and possessing creatures to use against the Dreamscape and the Mushroom Kingdom. The rock with eyes, Mister ArchevangEye,
the Cool Bully, all of them were Angels at one point, and have been turned into evildoers by Bowser. It truly is sick and twisted.

[Valley o' Ztar] The Ztar Meadows from Ztar Attack/Rebooted were dreamt by someone, and so a loosely remembered variation of it appeared in
the Dreamscape. The monsters inside it are from Ztar Attack, and were sent by the Bowser in that universe, not in this one.

[Garden of Gloom] This gloomy garden was once bustling with bright flowers, great trees, and angelic plants. However, Bowser has killed the
groundskeeper who lives in the mansion on the cliff. Since the garden is no longer being kept, the water moat has been overtaken by poisonous
algae, and weeds/vines have overgrown across the entire place. Dream Bob-Omb IDGG01 is not pesticide certified, so he has Mario kill the
pirhana plants that Bowser has planted.
In the mansion, the dead groundskeeper haunts the place in search of his unified soul, which has been split into five parts. Mario must unite
the five parts of his soul and free the groundskeeper from his ghostly body by destroying him. The groundskeeper shall bless Mario with a star and his
good spirit will help destroy the sick being that left the groundskeeper in this pitiful state to begin with: Bowser. In the ballroom that Mario defeats the 
Grand Groundskeeper Boo in, lies that Angel symbol, confirming Mario's theory that these evildoers are actually good-hearted souls that have been possessed.

[Forgotten Isle] This colorful jungle is so forgotten that even Bowser forgot to send monsters to it! The bird that resides there is lonely, and
has grown impatient for friends to show up, so he has grown insane and will attack anyone who comes near, beleiving his destiny is to be lonely forever,
and any visitors are figments of his imagination, or specters sent by an evil force.
Archevangelical Pokeys, however, have shown up, because someone in the Beach Oasis had a nightmare about the real ones that have taken over the
Beach Oasis. Thus, they pop up here.
A doorway leads to a land even longer forgotten in the skies. Mario remembers it vaguely, but he is unable to figure out where he knows this
place from.

[Lonely Lagoon + Swampfight] Mario has gained enough star power to head up the tower into the Lonely Lagoon, where, to IDDS02's correct assumption, Bowser has
built a pirate ship in hopes of conquesting some sort of sea. Mario heads up the lighthouse with the help of Cannon Bob-Omb IDLL00 and finds the
same godlike eye awaiting him. Bowser has lost that pitiful, nostalgic tone he had last time, and his holy eye of static glows as bright as ever.
Mario looks at the tail and throws Bowser into a bomb at the bow of the ship, placed by Espionage Bob-Omb IDSF01. Bowser warns him once again,
but Mario grabs the key that he has dropped.

Using the key, Mario enters the Xertic Castle.



[Part III]---------------------------------

Inside the [Xertic Castle] by the entrance, Dream Bob-Omb ID???? tells Mario of the Queen of Somna that has been captured by Bowser and the Whomp King, and that Mario needs to
destroy the Whomp King to get to Bowser. It is a believable story, for Bowser loves capturing royal highnesses, and the Whomp King used to be an enemy of the Mushroom Kingdom
many years prior. This Bob-Omb puts Mario on edge, however, because he has a strange deep tone in his voice unlike any other Bob-Omb Mario has heard, and also that he has heard 
that the Whomp King is an ally and is actually poised to attack Bowser as they speak. Mario simply attributes it to a weird dream someone had, and heads further into the castle.

[Midnight at Mapleland] A sweet, delicious land where it is always midnight. When kids dream of gumdrops and candy canes, this is where those events manifest.
As Dream Bob-Omb IDMM03 reveals from up in the town, the Wafflewiggler has made traversing all areas outside of the town very unsafe. Where
the Wafflewiggler currently resides is unknown to the ones living in the town, but Mario soon finds that he is far underground under the clock tower. Mario defeats the 
Wafflewiggler, who is thankful that he has been released, and tells Mario to defeat Bowser using the star he gives him.

[Tumbletoad Towers Ruins] As explained by Bob-Omb UXO-IDTT12:
Bowser came in and bombed the hell out of this place, which was once a military city for the Toads. This is where explosives were manufactured, the same explosives
that will be used against Bowser (some explosives were salvaged).
Now, all of the Toads that used to live here have survived, but they moved out and stayed out because there is an abundance of duds that have yet to go off, leaving them 
rightfully paranoid. In the deepest depths of one of the towers lives the King of the Duds; the biggest dud of them all. Mario subdues him for some extra star power, and he doesn't explode.
He just kind of disappears.

[Up-Down Town] A strange town in which the whole world flips upside down for anyone that happens to fall into the void below it. Not much is happening here relative to Mario's journey,
there's just some stars for Mario to collect while he dodges some of the enemies Bowser had sent.

[Optic Sea + Mario's Kismet] After gaining sufficient star power, Mario enters the door, and into the pipe he goes. Before he enters, he notices an eye above the pipe. After entering,
Mario is greeted by the sight of five large eyes. Black Bob-Omb IDOS01 tells that he and the other Bob-Ombs are working with the Whomp King and have set up defenses, and were
waiting for Mario to arrive to deliver the final blow with his great star power. The Eyes in the sky (dubbed as the Five Eyes of Job) are attacking their defenses, but they can't 
touch Mario at the distance they are at, because Mario has too much star power. Mario's suspicions were right all along: these Eyes were behind everything. They used Bowser as their 
puppet to do their bidding and take over both realms of Reality and Dream. Mario truly tests the fabric of existence by scavenging for some last-minute stars in the land of his Kismet.

----[MAIN ENDINGS] Here, Mario can create two outcomes: the Positive Ending, or the Nightmare Ending. Both scenarios are described below.

[Positive Ending + Seefight] Mario talks to Cannon Bob-Omb IDOS00, who opens the cannon by the large eye in the center. Mario shoots himself at the big pupil, containing the Angel symbol. 
In the short moment that he is in the air, he ponders something. How have these eyes used the power of God, and the power of holiness itself to commit evil acts? How have they avoided the 
Devil all along, and not used evil to commit evil? How have these eyes turned good itself into evil? It is so strange. It is so backward, and it is so wrong. He shall be the one to correct 
this. Mario is teleported to an abstract world where he can see the physical manifestation of the line of sight of the big Eye in the center. He avoids his line of sight and makes it to
the end of this abstract path. He is then transported to where Bowser is. It seems that the Espionage Bob-Ombs have not been able to place bombs here. Instead, there are three objects.
On the left, a pillar. On the right, a double-moon. In the center is a great Eye. It is horrifying. Mario grabs Bowser by the tail and throws him at each of the three objects. Bowser's
subconcious is returned to him, and he dies. Before he dies, he thanks Mario with his last words. It is strange to Mario, hearing Bowser thank him with genuine passion.
The Mushroom Kingdom and the Dreamscape are safe, for now, as the Eyes retreat to regain their power. The holy realm of heaven is kept in its equity. For now.
This is a good ending.

or, [Nightmare Ending] As Mario talks to Black Bob-Omb IDOS01, he has a revelation. There is a reason the Angel symbol has appeared everywhere. Good always
stomps evil, so perhaps these Eyes were right all along. Perhaps they are doing the work of God. Mario does not want to get in the way of that. If it were true, Mario would be greatly
smitten for his crimes against God. Mario was afraid of this punishment. The real evil ones all along are those that are resisting this heavenly shroud that the Eyes have been placing
upon the Mushroom Kingdom and the Dreamscape. God has used Bowser because God has turned evil into good, and is shaping his perfect Kingdom with it. The Bob-Omb in the Xertic Castle was right
all along! But who is the Queen of Somn? Maybe it is a metaphor for the holy spirit itself, Mario wonders.
Mario rushes into the tower of the Whomp King with an insane look in his eyes, and does God's work. He stomps and thwomps the Whomp King, until the Whomp King is nothing more.
The Whomp King dies wondering what had gotten into Mario for him to do this.
Without the Whomp King or Mario, the Mushroom Kingdom does not have nearly enough power to fight against the Eyes. With the puppet Bowser, the Eyes take over the Dreamscape. Mario is left
in the ruins of the Dreamscape, but he is spared. All is grey. As the Eyes head into the Mushroom Kingdom, Mario ponders again: 'Maybe I was wrong in helping the Eyes. What have I done?'
This is a bad ending.
However, Mario sees a path of color that still remains; a path of light, faith, and hope. He follows it. Maybe redemption is possible...

----[OTHER ENDINGS]

[Ice Ending] Mario heads back into the Tundra Meadows and overloads the Borealis Core by entering it (he now has sufficient star power) and finding the end of an icy road.
The universe freezes over, and everything is still. No more progress will ever be made on anything, or anyone, and time ends here. Mario caused it.
This is a bad ending.

[Completionist Ending] (this is basically just beating the hack 100%)
Instead of gaining only the star power necessary, Mario gains all of the star power possible and then defeats Bowser, reaching the positive ending. Mario has so much leftover extra power
that he is able to travel to a path of memories, which leads to one final star for Mario to add to his power level. After this, the Mushroom Kingdom and the Dreamscape remain safe, and
Mario basks in his great star power.
This is a good ending.

Mario's great trial is concluded.

Thank you for reading.




TL;DR - Eyes of Job have turned Bowser into a puppet, who is trying to take control of the Mushroom Kingdom and the Dreamscape on behalf of the Eyes. Mario can either defeat Bowser and the Eyes,
making them retreat, producing the Positive Ending, OR Mario can side with the Eyes and defeat the Whomp King, an ally of the Mushroom Kingdom, and produce the Nightmare Ending.

-------------------THANKS--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

These people thanks can be seen in the 'Halls of Thanks' in the Xertic Castle.

1. TheGael95 - made the Ztar Attack series, which has some of my favorite hacks of all time (ZAR, ZA2, LatFRR, MEftJ, and hopefully ZA3 is good)
2. cheese speedrunning - epic streamer and epic babe. got me into sm64 speedrunning which led to me discovering romhacks (pls unban me from your discord server)
3. Skelux - made Star Road, also is battling cancer. I wish him the best
4. BroDute - made the Star Revenge series, which has some of my favorite hacks of all time (SR2TTM, SR3.5, SR4.9, SR6.25, SR8)
5. goosedajuice - made Jammin' Journey 64 which, oddly enough, was my inspiration to finally start making my own hacks
6. aglab2 - made Ztar Attack Rebooted which is my #1 favorite hack ever, is also a very skilled hacker (ZAR, MEftJDE, AMA, Serene Fusion)
7. Simpleflips - great streamer, great person in the romhacking community, love the guy
8. Simply - great streamer, great speedrunner, used to play Minecraft with him... chill af
9. AndrewSM64 - epic romhack speedrunner, streamer, and he playtested this hack for me

Other thanks and tools used:

SM64 ROM Hacks Discord server, for providing most of the following resources and helping with a lot of smaller things
smwcentral.net for providing a large collection of music and textures
Scuttlebug_raiser/jesusyoshi54 for providing the tutorial of how to extend Instrument Bank 12
Quad64 for ripping textures mainly (most of which are from BroDute hacks)
Level Importer/SM64 Editor for ripping music
Sketchup 2017 for all modelling
ROM Manager for importing models, setting objects, text, music, and everything else it provides
Project64 Version 1.6 for testing and playing, with Jabo 1.6 for all plugins (im a basic bitch)
Star Display for testing and playing
HxD for some small hex editing
seq64 for some small music changes to .m64s and MIDIs that I didn't make
Anvil Studio for some small music changes to MIDIs that I didn't make
flips for making the .bps patch
GomeplayTV's model packs [Sketchup]
Biobak's greenery pack [Sketchup]
BroDute's tree pack [Sketchup]
OnFullTilt's hacking tutorials
Kaze Emanuar's texturing tutorials
Pablo's Corner's music tutorial
paint.net for making and editing textures
Costume Color 64
romhacking.com
sm64romhacks.com
Thanks to Nintendo for making Super Mario 64
Silent thanks to the guy who made the title screen for this hack. He has since deleted his Discord and I cannot remember his username

And thanks to YOU for playing the hack!

-------------------CHANGELOG-------------------

v0.5 - Wave 1 (Demo) release (October 2, 2022) 104 stars

v1.0 - Wave 2 (Full) initial release (February 1, 2024) 145 stars

v1.1 (February 10, 2024)
-added the three promised paintings in the castle (KingToad, Reverser of Time, MintyIsFresh)
-[QOL] blue coin switch preview tweak
-[QOL] patched aglab's new hud fix that doesn't mess with accurate plugins
-[QOL] pole fix
-checkpoint for blue caves
-added fading warp on other side of gate in c3 to get back if it closes (you really could just BLJ)
-removed one of the snufits on c3 s1
-coins better indicating where c12 s5 is
-moved bowser a little further back in b1 fight to hopefully avoid him jumping directly off the platform at the start
-b1 fight death/exit course is now right by the cannon, to aid having to reset the fight due to a softlock
-added a blue coin switch, some goombas, and some vertical coin formations in c15 tower
-added secret sign in ow2
-ignored the out of bounds tree in valley o ztar



[ G_D L_VES HIS CHILDREN, YEAH ]